docs/index.asciidoc, before:

:plugin: google_cloud_storage
:type: output
:default_codec: plain

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Google_cloud_storage output plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Summary: plugin to upload log events to Google Cloud Storage (GCS), rolling
files based on the date pattern provided as a configuration setting. Events
are written to files locally and, once file is closed, this plugin uploads
it to the configured bucket.

For more info on Google Cloud Storage, please go to:
https://cloud.google.com/products/cloud-storage

In order to use this plugin, a Google service account must be used. For
more information, please refer to:
https://developers.google.com/storage/docs/authentication#service_accounts

Recommendation: experiment with the settings depending on how much log
data you generate, so the uploader can keep up with the generated logs.
Using gzip output can be a good option to reduce network traffic when
uploading the log files and in terms of storage costs as well.

USAGE:
This is an example of logstash config:

[source,json]
--------------------------
output {
   google_cloud_storage {
     bucket => "my_bucket"                                     (required)
     key_path => "/path/to/privatekey.p12"                     (required)
     key_password => "notasecret"                              (optional)
     service_account => "1234@developer.gserviceaccount.com"   (required)
     temp_directory => "/tmp/logstash-gcs"                     (optional)
     log_file_prefix => "logstash_gcs"                         (optional)
     max_file_size_kbytes => 1024                              (optional)
     output_format => "plain"                                  (optional)
     date_pattern => "%Y-%m-%dT%H:00"                          (optional)
     flush_interval_secs => 2                                  (optional)
     gzip => false                                             (optional)
     gzip_content_encoding => false                            (optional)
     uploader_interval_secs => 60                              (optional)
     include_uuid => true                                      (optional)
     include_hostname => true                                  (optional)
   }
}
--------------------------

* Support logstash event variables to determine filename.
* Turn Google API code into a Plugin Mixin (like AwsConfig).
* There's no recover method, so if logstash/plugin crashes, files may not
be uploaded to GCS.
* Allow user to configure file name.
* Allow parallel uploads for heavier loads (+ connection configuration if
exposed by Ruby API client)

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Google_cloud_storage Output Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-bucket>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-date_pattern>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-flush_interval_secs>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip_content_encoding>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_hostname>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_uuid>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_password>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_path>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-log_file_prefix>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_concurrent_uploads>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_file_size_kbytes>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-output_format>> |<<string,string>>, one of `["json", "plain"]`|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-service_account>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-temp_directory>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-uploader_interval_secs>> |<<number,number>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
output plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-bucket"]
===== `bucket` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

GCS bucket name, without "gs://" or any other prefix.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-date_pattern"]
===== `date_pattern` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"%Y-%m-%dT%H:00"`

Time pattern for log file, defaults to hourly files.
Must Time.strftime patterns: www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.0/Time.html#method-i-strftime

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-flush_interval_secs"]
===== `flush_interval_secs` 

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `2`

Flush interval in seconds for flushing writes to log files. 0 will flush
on every message.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip"]
===== `gzip` 

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Gzip output stream when writing events to log files, set
`Content-Type` to `application/gzip` instead of `text/plain`, and
use file suffix `.log.gz` instead of `.log`.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip_content_encoding"]
===== `gzip_content_encoding`

added[3.3.0]

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Gzip output stream when writing events to log files and set
`Content-Encoding` to `gzip`.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_hostname"]
===== `include_hostname`

added[3.1.0]

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `true`

Should the hostname be included in the file name?
You may want to turn this off for privacy reasons or if you are running multiple
instances of Logstash and need to match the files you create with a simple glob
such as if you wanted to import files to BigQuery.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_uuid"]
===== `include_uuid`

added[3.1.0]

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Adds a UUID to the end of a file name.
You may want to enable this feature so files don't clobber one another if you're
running multiple instances of Logstash or if you expect frequent node restarts.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_password"]
===== `key_password` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"notasecret"`

GCS private key password.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_path"]
===== `key_path` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

GCS path to private key file.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-log_file_prefix"]
===== `log_file_prefix` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"logstash_gcs"`

Log file prefix. Log file will follow the format:
<prefix>_hostname_date<.part?>.log

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_concurrent_uploads"]
===== `max_concurrent_uploads`

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `5`

Sets the maximum number of concurrent uploads to Cloud Storage at a time.
Uploads are I/O bound so it makes sense to tune this paramater with regards
to the network bandwidth available and the latency between your server and
Cloud Storage.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_file_size_kbytes"]
===== `max_file_size_kbytes` 

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `10000`

Sets max file size in kbytes. 0 disable max file check.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-output_format"]
===== `output_format` 

  * Value can be any of: `json`, `plain`
  * Default value is `"plain"`

The event format you want to store in files. Defaults to plain text.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-service_account"]
===== `service_account` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

GCS service account.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-temp_directory"]
===== `temp_directory` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `""`

Directory where temporary files are stored.
Defaults to /tmp/logstash-gcs-<random-suffix>

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-uploader_interval_secs"]
===== `uploader_interval_secs` 

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `60`

Uploader interval when uploading new files to GCS. Adjust time based
on your time pattern (for example, for hourly files, this interval can be
around one hour).



include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

added more description for content-encoding
Added more information around why you'd want to use content-encoding vs content-type and a warning about using both.

docs/index.asciidoc, after:

:plugin: google_cloud_storage
:type: output
:default_codec: plain

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Google_cloud_storage output plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Summary: plugin to upload log events to Google Cloud Storage (GCS), rolling
files based on the date pattern provided as a configuration setting. Events
are written to files locally and, once file is closed, this plugin uploads
it to the configured bucket.

For more info on Google Cloud Storage, please go to:
https://cloud.google.com/products/cloud-storage

In order to use this plugin, a Google service account must be used. For
more information, please refer to:
https://developers.google.com/storage/docs/authentication#service_accounts

Recommendation: experiment with the settings depending on how much log
data you generate, so the uploader can keep up with the generated logs.
Using gzip output can be a good option to reduce network traffic when
uploading the log files and in terms of storage costs as well.

USAGE:
This is an example of logstash config:

[source,json]
--------------------------
output {
   google_cloud_storage {
     bucket => "my_bucket"                                     (required)
     key_path => "/path/to/privatekey.p12"                     (required)
     key_password => "notasecret"                              (optional)
     service_account => "1234@developer.gserviceaccount.com"   (required)
     temp_directory => "/tmp/logstash-gcs"                     (optional)
     log_file_prefix => "logstash_gcs"                         (optional)
     max_file_size_kbytes => 1024                              (optional)
     output_format => "plain"                                  (optional)
     date_pattern => "%Y-%m-%dT%H:00"                          (optional)
     flush_interval_secs => 2                                  (optional)
     gzip => false                                             (optional)
     gzip_content_encoding => false                            (optional)
     uploader_interval_secs => 60                              (optional)
     include_uuid => true                                      (optional)
     include_hostname => true                                  (optional)
   }
}
--------------------------

* Support logstash event variables to determine filename.
* Turn Google API code into a Plugin Mixin (like AwsConfig).
* There's no recover method, so if logstash/plugin crashes, files may not
be uploaded to GCS.
* Allow user to configure file name.
* Allow parallel uploads for heavier loads (+ connection configuration if
exposed by Ruby API client)

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Google_cloud_storage Output Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-bucket>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-date_pattern>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-flush_interval_secs>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip_content_encoding>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_hostname>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_uuid>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_password>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_path>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-log_file_prefix>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_concurrent_uploads>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_file_size_kbytes>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-output_format>> |<<string,string>>, one of `["json", "plain"]`|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-service_account>> |<<string,string>>|Yes
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-temp_directory>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-uploader_interval_secs>> |<<number,number>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
output plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-bucket"]
===== `bucket` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

GCS bucket name, without "gs://" or any other prefix.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-date_pattern"]
===== `date_pattern` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"%Y-%m-%dT%H:00"`

Time pattern for log file, defaults to hourly files.
Must Time.strftime patterns: www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.0/Time.html#method-i-strftime

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-flush_interval_secs"]
===== `flush_interval_secs` 

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `2`

Flush interval in seconds for flushing writes to log files. 0 will flush
on every message.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip"]
===== `gzip` 

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Gzip output stream when writing events to log files, set
`Content-Type` to `application/gzip` instead of `text/plain`, and
use file suffix `.log.gz` instead of `.log`.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-gzip_content_encoding"]
===== `gzip_content_encoding`

added[3.3.0]

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Gzip output stream when writing events to log files and set `Content-Encoding` to `gzip`.
This will upload your files as `gzip` saving network and storage costs, but they will be
transparently decompressed when you read them from the storage bucket.

See the Cloud Storage documentation on https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/metadata#content-encoding[metadata] and 
https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/transcoding#content-type_vs_content-encoding[transcoding]
for more information.

**Note**: It is not recommended to use both `gzip_content_encoding` and `gzip`.
This compresses your file _twice_, will increase the work your machine does and makes 
the files larger than just compressing once.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_hostname"]
===== `include_hostname`

added[3.1.0]

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `true`

Should the hostname be included in the file name?
You may want to turn this off for privacy reasons or if you are running multiple
instances of Logstash and need to match the files you create with a simple glob
such as if you wanted to import files to BigQuery.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-include_uuid"]
===== `include_uuid`

added[3.1.0]

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Adds a UUID to the end of a file name.
You may want to enable this feature so files don't clobber one another if you're
running multiple instances of Logstash or if you expect frequent node restarts.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_password"]
===== `key_password` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"notasecret"`

GCS private key password.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-key_path"]
===== `key_path` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

GCS path to private key file.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-log_file_prefix"]
===== `log_file_prefix` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"logstash_gcs"`

Log file prefix. Log file will follow the format:
<prefix>_hostname_date<.part?>.log

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_concurrent_uploads"]
===== `max_concurrent_uploads`

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `5`

Sets the maximum number of concurrent uploads to Cloud Storage at a time.
Uploads are I/O bound so it makes sense to tune this paramater with regards
to the network bandwidth available and the latency between your server and
Cloud Storage.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-max_file_size_kbytes"]
===== `max_file_size_kbytes` 

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `10000`

Sets max file size in kbytes. 0 disable max file check.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-output_format"]
===== `output_format` 

  * Value can be any of: `json`, `plain`
  * Default value is `"plain"`

The event format you want to store in files. Defaults to plain text.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-service_account"]
===== `service_account` 

  * This is a required setting.
  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

GCS service account.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-temp_directory"]
===== `temp_directory` 

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `""`

Directory where temporary files are stored.
Defaults to /tmp/logstash-gcs-<random-suffix>

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-uploader_interval_secs"]
===== `uploader_interval_secs` 

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `60`

Uploader interval when uploading new files to GCS. Adjust time based
on your time pattern (for example, for hourly files, this interval can be
around one hour).



include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]
